Now, in this exercise, you will apply your knowledge on
production matrices to display Lidar points within the camera image.
This is a super important step because visualizing data
is key to success when developing applications for autonomous vehicles.
You need to see what the vehicle sees to really understand how some problems are caused,
and also come up with creative solutions to solve those problems.
Visualizing Lidar in this way is actually very
rewarding because you get such nice-looking results.
So this exercise basically consists of three steps.
The first is, convert Lidar points into homogeneous coordinates.
The second is, map all points onto the image plane,
and the third step is,
move back to the euclidean coordinate system with x and y
to get the position where your Lidar point hits the image plane.
The output image should be really colorful and as you will see,
that's not what it's supposed to look like.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves and complete
those three steps first before you see what I'm referring to.
So now let's take a look how Lidar point projection into the camera works.
So the first thing we do here in this line is we simply read an image from file.
It's the image where the vehicle in front of us is driving along in the highway scenario.
Then we load the Lidar points from file.
It's the Lidar point Cloud which we load here.
Basically, that's the original data also made available by the kitty data set,
but I have packaged it into this.format here to make it easier
for you and more convenient to simply load those Lidar points and get on with it.
But in the final version of the project,
the final project at the end of this course,
you will see a loading routine which basically is able to load the original data.
This one has been customized to fit this small exercise.
Now the next thing which happens here,
is we create the calibration matrices which we need in
order to protect the actual point in space onto the image plane.
Now this to be granted looks really scary,
but what's happening here is,
we create three matrices which you already know from the lesson here.
The first is a prediction metrics
which basically is the intrinsic camera calibration matrix,
then we have the rotation matrix which is needed to make images co-planar.
That's required because we actually have a stereo setup.
We have a left camera and the right camera, but in our course,
we are only using one camera from those two.
We have to follow the exact calibration instructions which are made available
to us by the kitty researchers who have made available that database.
Even though we have not talked about relating left and right camera,
we only talked about rectifying or relating camera and Lidar sensor,
they need to do this in order for that transformation to work correctly.
So that's why we are using this additional matrix here.
Basically, what happens we discussed this in this lesson,
basically it aligns both image planes
in a way that one line in the left camera corresponds to
exactly one line in the other camera without this line going diagonally across the image.
If you want to dig deeper a little bit,
you might want to look into epipolar geometry,
which is the word which gives you access
to this body of knowledge behind a stereo camera calibration.
But we're not going deeply into this,
we only have to use it.
So once we have to find those matrices here,
we want to fill them with information.
What I have done here is basically,
I have taken only those lines from the calibration files made available by kitty,
and simply put them into the matrices.
So for example, the upper-left
component 00 in the intrinsic camera calibration matrix which is this one here,
I am setting it to a value which I have
taken from the calibration file which ships along with each data set here.
If you want to run another data set when you
are downloading other data from the kitty website,
you have to always look up the respective calibration file
and put the values in here which you get from the test file.
That's a bit cumbersome I know,
but you could also think about maybe writing
a small loading routine which simply pulls this data from the text file,
which I have not done for this course.
So I have entered the data here manually.
So that's a lengthy code, but what it does,
it assembles all the data from the calibration files into
a convenient OpenCV matrix data structure which we can use in the file.
So let's move on to the actual step of projecting the Lidar points.
So again, we create a visualization image which you already are familiar with.
What's new here is we also are creating an overlay image which enables us to
superimpose the actual projected Lidar points
over the original image content in a translucent manner.
So we are making it transparent so that we can still see the original data,
the original image, and the Lidar points are going to be a translucent overlay.
That's why we are additionally cloning this image here.
Then again, we have a for loop which runs over
all the Lidar points which we just loaded from file.
Actually, the first step which I talked about which you have to conduct here,
we have to convert the X, Y,
Z coordinates to homogeneous coordinates.
So the point capital X is actually a point of homogeneous coordinates.
The only thing actually which you have to do here is,
you simply assign all of the first three components, the x, y,
and z wall coordinates of the Lidar point,
and then you add a fourth component here which is this one here,
and you simply set it to one.
So after doing this very simple operation,
what you get is a point x in homogeneous coordinates.
The next thing which we do here is we perform the actual projection,
and this line has been taken from the kitty info Read Me file,
which you can also look through once you download one of the original data-sets.
In this text file, they tell you exactly how to perform the calibration.
We already know how this works because we have learned
a lot about calibration in this lesson here.
So in order to get a projected point capital Y which lies on the image plane,
you take a point in 3D space,
X which is already in homogeneous coordinates,
then you apply the extrinsic calibration to it.
So we have a rotation, we have a translation,
then we rectify the two images left camera,
right hand camera which we are not using in terms of stereo processing,
but we have to apply this transformation in order
to align the image correctly to the Lidar sensor,
and then we perform the intrinsic camera calibration which looks at lens distortion
and also about looking at the respective focal length of this very camera.
The whole transformation which we can simply
concatenate because we are using homogeneous coordinates. That's the beauty of it.
We simply make a point homogeneous,
and then we can apply this very easy one line transformation,
which already gives us the point on the image plane.
However, this point is also in homogeneous coordinates.
In order to get pixel coordinates,
what we have to do here,
is in order to get the x-component in pixels,
we have to divide the first component from
this transformed vector by the last components.
So we have to basically scale it down to get back into the euclidean coordinate system.
In order to do so, we divide it by the third component,
by the homogeneous component if you want.
So once we have completed those two lines here,
we have the pixel coordinates on the image plane of a point of a lineup point in space.
The next thing we do is something that you already know from one of the last exercises.
We are color-coding all the Image Content by assigning
it a color in the spectrum between green and red.
Green would be far away,
20 meters away and red would be directly in front of the sensor,
and we already discussed how those two lines here work,
how they color-code the respective points.
Then we simply paint the Lidar point in pixels onto the overlay image,
and what's happens here is,
we decide how opaque the translucent over the image will be.
Currently, it's at 60 percent transparency.
We add this overlay image to
the visualization image and then we simply display the visualization images.
So let's look at how this works.
What you can see here is our original image.
It's the traffic scene of the highway driving scenario.
This is the preceding vehicle,
and this color-coded overlay here is
all the Lidar points we took from the Lidar point Cloud.
Now as you can see, very close points here on the road surface almost have reddish tint,
and the farther away we move from the sensor,
the color-coding changes to green.
If you look at this vehicle here,
what's interesting about it is that well basically,
it's a vertical object.
So all the color values here should be roughly identical,
which is also what we see here,
it's an orange color tailgate.
At the top, we have those green values and also some red values here.
So these are erroneous Lidar points.
They give you false distances.
So even though Lidar is a very capable sensor
of performing highly correct and precise measurements,
still some points simply are reflected in a wrong manner and give you false coordinates.
So you have to tread very carefully when looking at Lidar point Cloud,
you still have lots of outliers in this point Cloud,
which in this case to be seen very easily when you observe this proceeding vehicle.
Now what's not so good is that the entire sky and
everything beyond the 20 meter mark is bright red.
So there's something not working correctly,
and it's one of the next exercises to look at what's happening here and to find ways to
solve this problem once and for all so that we get
a clear image of all the obstacles on the scene,
color-code it correctly without
the road surface and without the sky being in wrong color.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves,
let's wait and see how this can be resolved.